{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs24\lang9 ### Sunbase Assignment: Building a Basic RAG Model AI Chatbot\par
\par
This project involves creating a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model AI chatbot using open-source tools. It will use a Vector Database for storing embeddings and will have a Java backend with a simple HTML/CSS/JS frontend. Here\rquote s a step-by-step guide on how to build this project:\par
\par
### Project Structure\par
\par
1. **Frontend:**\par
   - HTML/CSS/JS for the user interface.\par
   - Pages for uploading documents/text and a basic chat interface.\par
\par
2. **Backend:**\par
   - Java for API development.\par
   - APIs for uploading text/files, converting text to embeddings, and handling chat queries.\par
\par
3. **Database:**\par
   - Zilliz/Supabase or any Vector DB for storing embeddings.\par
\par
### Step-by-Step Implementation\par
\par
#### 1. Setup the Repository\par
Create a new public repository on GitHub and clone it to your local machine.sh\par
git clone {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/yourusername/rag-chatbot.git }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/yourusername/rag-chatbot.git\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
cd rag-chatbot\par
#### 2. Frontend Development\par
Create a simple HTML/CSS/JS interface.\par
\par
**index.html**html\par
<!DOCTYPE html>\par
<html lang="en">\par
<head>\par
    <meta charset="UTF-8">\par
    <title>RAG Chatbot</title>\par
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">\par
</head>\par
<body>\par
    <div id="upload-section">\par
        <h2>Upload Document/Text</h2>\par
        <input type="file" id="fileInput">\par
        <button onclick="uploadFile()">Upload</button>\par
    </div>\par
    <div id="chat-section">\par
        <h2>Chat Interface</h2>\par
        <div id="chat-box"></div>\par
        <input type="text" id="userInput">\par
        <button onclick="sendMessage()">Send</button>\par
    </div>\par
    <script src="script.js"></script>\par
</body>\par
</html>\par
**styles.css**css\par
body \{\par
    font-family: Arial, sans-serif;\par
    margin: 20px;\par
\}\par
\par
#upload-section, #chat-section \{\par
    margin-bottom: 20px;\par
\}\par
\par
#chat-box \{\par
    border: 1px solid #ccc;\par
    padding: 10px;\par
    height: 200px;\par
    overflow-y: scroll;\par
    margin-bottom: 10px;\par
\}\par
**script.js**javascript\par
function uploadFile() \{\par
    const fileInput = document.getElementById('fileInput');\par
    const file = fileInput.files[0];\par
    const formData = new FormData();\par
    formData.append('file', file);\par
\par
    fetch('/api/upload', \{\par
        method: 'POST',\par
        body: formData\par
    \}).then(response => response.json())\par
      .then(data => \{\par
          alert('File uploaded successfully');\par
      \}).catch(error => \{\par
          console.error('Error uploading {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK file:' }}{\fldrslt{file:'\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 , error);\par
      \});\par
\}\par
\par
function sendMessage() \{\par
    const userInput = document.getElementById('userInput').value;\par
\par
    fetch('/api/chat', \{\par
        method: 'POST',\par
        headers: \{\par
            'Content-Type': 'application/json'\par
        \},\par
        body: JSON.stringify(\{ query: userInput \})\par
    \}).then(response => response.json())\par
      .then(data => \{\par
          const chatBox = document.getElementById('chat-box');\par
          chatBox.innerHTML += `<p><strong>You:</strong> $\{userInput\}</p>`;\par
          chatBox.innerHTML += `<p><strong>Bot:</strong> $\{data.response\}</p>`;\par
      \}).catch(error => \{\par
          console.error('Error sending message:', error);\par
      \});\par
\}\par
#### 3. Backend Development\par
\par
Create a Java project with Maven/Gradle.\par
\par
**pom.xml** (if using Maven)xml\par
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd }}{\fldrslt{http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 ">\par
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>\par
    <groupId>com.example</groupId>\par
    <artifactId>rag-chatbot</artifactId>\par
    <version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>\par
    <dependencies>\par
        <dependency>\par
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>\par
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>\par
        </dependency>\par
        <dependency>\par
            <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>\par
            <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>\par
        </dependency>\par
        <!-- Add dependencies for Zilliz/Supabase and embedding model here -->\par
    </dependencies>\par
</project>\par
**Application.java**java\par
package com.example.ragchatbot;\par
\par
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;\par
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;\par
\par
@SpringBootApplication\par
public class Application \{\par
    public static void main(String[] args) \{\par
        SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args);\par
    \}\par
\}\par
**UploadController.java**java\par
package com.example.ragchatbot.controller;\par
\par
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;\par
import org.springframework.web.multipart.MultipartFile;\par
\par
@RestController\par
@RequestMapping("/api")\par
public class UploadController \{\par
\par
    @PostMapping("/upload")\par
    public String uploadFile(@RequestParam("file") MultipartFile file) \{\par
        // Logic to process file, convert to chunks, generate embeddings, and store in vector DB\par
        return "File uploaded successfully";\par
    \}\par
\}\par
**ChatController.java**java\par
package com.example.ragchatbot.controller;\par
\par
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;\par
\par
@RestController\par
@RequestMapping("/api")\par
public class ChatController \{\par
\par
    @PostMapping("/chat")\par
    public String chat(@RequestBody Map<String, String> request) \{\par
        String query = request.get("query");\par
        // Logic to handle chat query, use prompt engineering, and generate response\par
        return "\{ \\"response\\": \\"This is a sample response.\\" \}";\par
    \}\par
\}\par
#### 4. Embedding and Vector Database Integration\par
\par
For embeddings, you can use a library like sentence-transformers in Python to generate embeddings. Then, use the Java API to interact with the Vector DB.\par
\par
**EmbeddingService.java**java\par
package com.example.ragchatbot.service;\par
\par
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;\par
\par
@Service\par
public class EmbeddingService \{\par
\par
    public void generateAndStoreEmbeddings(String text) \{\par
        // Logic to generate embeddings and store in Vector DB\par
    \}\par
\}\par
**ChatService.java**java\par
package com.example.ragchatbot.service;\par
\par
import org.springframework.stereotype.Service;\par
\par
@Service\par
public class ChatService \{\par
\par
    public String getResponse(String query) \{\par
        // Logic to retrieve embeddings from Vector DB and generate response\par
        return "This is a sample response.";\par
    \}\par
\}\par
#### 5. README File\par
\par
Create a README.md file to document the project.\par
\par
**README.md**markdown\par
# RAG Chatbot\par
\par
This project is a basic Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model AI chatbot using Java for the backend and HTML/CSS/JS for the frontend. The embeddings are stored in a vector database.\par
\par
## Features\par
\par
- Upload documents or text files for training the RAG model.\par
- Simple chat interface for interacting with the chatbot.\par
\par
## Requirements\par
\par
- Java 11+\par
- Maven\par
- Node.js\par
- Python (for generating embeddings)\par
- Vector Database (Zilliz/Supabase)\par
\par
## Setup Instructions\par
\par
1. Clone the repository:\par
   sh\par
    git clone {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/yourusername/rag-chatbot.git }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/yourusername/rag-chatbot.git\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
    cd rag-chatbot\par
   \par
2. Install dependencies:\par
   sh\par
    mvn install\par
   \par
3. Run the backend server:\par
   sh\par
    mvn spring-boot:run\par
   \par
4. Open `index.html` in your browser to access the frontend.\par
\par
## Contributing\par
\par
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.\par
\par
## License\par
\par
This project is licensed under the MIT License.\par
### Conclusion\par
\par
This guide provides a basic framework for building a RAG model AI chatbot with Java backend and a simple frontend. The focus is on the integration of a vector database for storing embeddings and handling user queries using prompt engineering. Ensure to add detailed logic for embedding generation and retrieval according to the specific vector database and embedding model you choose to use.\f1\fs22\par
}
 